# SA46Team05A ESNET Project

                                           


This is a class project from the GDipSA program in ISS, NUS. The objective is to design and build a sports facility booking system that demonstrates an understanding of UI design, OOP concepts and database design.

## Assumptions
To meet the objective, the team has decided to make simplifying assumptions on the scope of the project without affecting its breadth.

### About Facilities
- There is only one facility of each type available.
- We assume once Facility is created  it cannot be cancelled.We can only change its status of availability either
  available/non available.
  
### Booking rules
- Bookings are made in hourly timeslots, with the first timeslot starting at 8 AM and last timeslot at 7 PM
- Booking can be made only for today and tomorrow
- For same-day booking, only timeslots after the current hour can be booked. I.e. if the time now is 9.45 AM, only timeslots from 10 am     onwards can be booked.
- Members can book one or more continuous timeslots in one booking
- Bookings can be made only to the available facilities,i.e.,sometimes facilities may be unavailable due to maintenance.So this doesnot       allow to book slots in such cases.

### Membership rules
- Membership can be availed only if the person is above 18 years old.
- Membership lasts 2 years from the date of registration.
- Members can choose to extend their membership either after expiry or before it expires.If membership is renewed after it expires 
  Join Date/Date of registration will be set to current date and Expiry date will be generated when Extend button is clicked. 
  
### Report
-Booking Receipt is part of the Booking process.
-In Transaction Report Caancelled Column value False  means it is Booked otherwise it is Cancelled. 

### User identification
- Staff are using company-issued desktops and have to log in with their issued accounts.

# Technial requirements
## Program
No special steps required to run the program

## Database
### Setup
To setup the database, restore the database using the .bak file in the DatabaseSetup folder. Alternatively, create a blank database named 'SA46Team05A Database' and run the createDB.sh file in the same folder.

### Metadata
- Members: All fields are compulsory except for Email
  - MemberID: Unique automatically generated integer identifier  \[PrimaryKey\]
  - MemberName
  - Salutation: Title of the member, e.g. MR, MRS
  - Sex: 'M' or 'F'
  - Birthday
  - PhoneNumber: 8-digit number that must start with 8 or 9 and stored as a string
  - Address
  - Email
  - EmergencyContactName
  - EmergencyContactNumber: Same definition as PhoneNumber, but value should be different from PhoneNumber
  - JoinDate: Automatically generated at time of registration or extension
  - ExpiryDate: Automatically generated, 2 years after JoinDate

- Facilities: All fields are compulsory
  - FacilityID: Unique identifier generated by user \[PrimaryKey\]
  - FacilityName
  
- Transactions: All fields are compulsory
  - TransactionID: Unique automatically generated integer identifier  \[PrimaryKey\]
  - FacilityID: \[ForeignKey\]
  - MemberID: \[ForeignKey\]
  - TransDate: Refers to the date of use for the booking
  - StartTime: Start time of the booked session
  - EndTime: End time of the booked session
  - Cancelled: True if cancelled
  
- Availability: All fields are compulsory except for MemberID and TransactionID
  - FacilityID: \[CompositePrimaryKey\]
  - AvailDate: Date of use for the facility \[CompositePrimaryKey\]
  - Timeslot: The hour start time of the timeslot \[CompositePrimaryKey\]
  - MemberID: MemberID of the member who booked the timeslot, field can be null \[ForeignKey\]
  - TransactionID: TransactionID of the transaction associated with the timeslot, field can be null \[ForeignKey\]
  - Booked: True if booked
  - Available: True if the facility is not closed for any reason
  
## OOPS concepts included
- Used Inheritance concept by deriving from the Baseform.
- Constructors-Overloading concept is used in MemberMaintenance Form.
- Code reuse is done in MemberMaintenance.
- Code reuse and encapsulation of DataGridView updating functions in BookingForm. 



